---
title: 202404W1 LOL，ChengDu
date: 2024-04-09 10:44:08
tags:
    - 周报
categories: 生活
---


It's been a long time since I wrote a weekly report, perhaps because I felt there wasn't much worth recording. After some thought, I realized I could still jot down some recent activities from the past few months.

For the upcoming reports, I plan to write in both Chinese and English, with the English version placed separately in a directory.

### League of Legends
In March, *Steve* came from Guangzhou to Shenzhen for a visit. Since *PPD* is also part of our circle, and everyone happened to be free, the three of us decided to hang out. *Steve* arrived in Shenzhen around noon and had lunch with friends, so in the meantime, *PPD* and I went hiking in Nanshan. Two hours were enough to finish the trail. We met *Steve* at a café, although I've known him for over a year, it was the first time we met in person. After discussing some industry-related news and gossip, I suggested going to an internet café. And so, the three of us, a bunch of old gamers, went to a nearby internet café with good ambiance, playing "League of Legends" in a row. We only lost one match in the afternoon. By the time we finished playing, it was already 8 or 9 p.m., so we had barbecue nearby. *Steve* stayed at a hotel not far from our neighborhood that night and took a ride back to Guangzhou the next day. It's always interesting to catch up with friends. Steve's personal story is quite intriguing; he used to work for a Japanese company in the early days, then returned to China for his sister and now has to go back to Japan.

### Chengdu
I spent a few days in Chengdu during the Qingming Festival. Being able to return to this city where I lived for four years was really delightful. I stayed at a friend's house for two days; they have a lively two-month-old puppy who kept jumping on people and even chewed up my pants. Life in Chengdu is so laid-back, with the slow pace of daily life in a big city. Compared to that, the escape room games in Shenzhen seem insignificant. We drove to Mount Siguniang; it was snowing there, and many people were striking poses at the photo spots over 4,000 meters high.

My flight back to Shenzhen was delayed for over two hours. I arrived home past 2 a.m. I planned to take a day off for rest, but it wasn't until I saw messages in the group chat indicating that I had only taken half a day off that I realized I had filled in the end date incorrectly...

I haven't read a single book in the past few months, but I've been spending a lot of time on social media. I've decided to take a break from social media and use the time to catch up on my unread books instead.